# Data Science Journey
Hello my name is Matthew Collins. I am a recent graduate of Bellevue University's Master of Data Science program. While a graduate of the program, my passion for the last 25 years have been as a quality professional in the medical device and pharmaceutical industries. I became interested in data science because of how internal and external data has become a foundational element when dealing with regulatory authorities around the world. Data science has become essential when detecting, reacting, and using signals to prevent public health issues.

I find it essential to stay with the evolution of insight and analysis. Customer sentiment, and critical information is rapid, evolving and traced to many disparate locations. Whether it is Facebook, eBay, amazon, twitter, Instagram or other, people are being heard. Being able to bring pull these disparate sources of information together helps ensure we provide safe and effective products. Using the voice of the patient to improve outcomes aligns with my personal goal of doing well by doing good. This notion can begins through the act of listening.

The Food and Drug Administration continues to evolve their data science program. Responsible manufactures must stay ahead of the FDA post market program. We never want the FDA to trigger a problem. Our internal listening systems must be sensitive, and predictive so we can act responsibly. By the time the FDA is alerted to a signal it may be too late. Part of doing well by doing good, means assuming the responsibility and not relying on external entities.

Project descriptions:
1.	Prediction heart disease with classification algorithms: Heart disease contributed to over 600k deaths in 2020 or 1 person passes every 36 seconds from heart disease. As insurance providers continue to look for avenues to reduce costs, hospitals are undertaking programs to improve patient outcomes, reduce spending, and avoid penalties from insurance providers, early intervention to prevent disease progression is critical. The research created new classification algorithms using data from the Cleveland Heart Disease Center to enhance knowledge on earlier prognosis for the prevention of this devastating disease.

2.	Financial markets in flux, being able to quickly assess expert financial opinion can serve as a means for the average investor to make informed decisions on how to invest their money. Quick assessment of changing winds in the financial sector can help reduce overall portfolio risks. If Warren Buffet cannot beat the S&P 500, why would we expect the average investor to be able to? This project brings together financial news and uses Natural Language Procession (NLP) to categorize sentiment and use the collective sentiments to predict the financial market sentiment.

